#summary How to include this in your project and use it in your models
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

Until the app gets included into Django's official distribution, it is only available from SVN:

{{{
svn checkout http://django-values.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ values
}}}

= INSTALLED_APPS =

Add it to your `INSTALLED_APPS` setting to make sure Django knows about it.

{{{
INSTALLED_APPS = (
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.sites',
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'django.contrib.values',
    ...
)
}}}

= URLconf =

In order to modify your options on the fly, you'll need access to the value editor, so add it in to your urls.py.

*Note:* Since it's essentially an administrative features, I've chosen to use the `/admin/` prefix for this as well. If you choose to follow this pattern, be sure to add the new line before the main admin url pattern. However, there's no requirement for your project to use this particular URL; you may place it anywhere you'd like.

{{{
urlpatterns = patterns('',
    (r'^admin/values/', include('django.contrib.values.urls')),
    (r'^admin/', include('django.contrib.admin.urls')),
    ...
)
}}}

= Syncing the database =

Since values are backed up to the database for persistence across server instances, there is one model that needs to be installed into the database. Just run `syncdb` and the table will be created as normal.

*Note:* This does _not_ have to be done prior to adding values to your models. If you run `syncdb` _after_ setting up your value attributes, django-values won't complain. However, you will definitely need to run `syncdb` before attempting to edit any values.

= That's it! =

The rest of the work is done in each individual models.py, and is covered under [Usage].